about/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
tags: [about, Jekyll, theme, moon]
date: 2019-12-6
comments: false
---

<center>Last Updated at 21.11.12.</center>

## Education

---

Sungkyunkwan University Suwon, South Korea

- __Grade__: *Junior Year of College of Software, Bachelor of Software* &emsp; [03. 2017] ~
- __Credit__: 102 Credit completed
- __GPA__: 4.29 / 4.5
- __Honors__: TOPCIT Army Chief staff Award, Student's Success Scholarship, Scholarship for Academic Excellence, SKKU BugBounty 2018 Incentive Award, SKKU BugBounty 2017 Special Award, Deans’s Award
- __Coursework__: Data Structure, Algorithm, Problem Solving, Digital Logic Circuits, Discrete Mathematics, Linear Algebra, Cryptology, System Program, Introduction to Computer Architectures, Computer Networks, Open Source Software Practice, Database, Introduction to Machine Learning

## Experience

---

__Scatterlab__ &emsp; Seoul, Korea  
*Machine Learning Engineer* &emsp; [02. 2020] - [Present]

- Participanted developing open domain conversational chatbot agent [Luda-Lee](https://luda.ai/).
- Developed dataset management and automated model evaluate platform backend with Python and AWS Dynamo DB.  
- Research and Develop Person Name Recognition model and filter curse, sexual or containing person name utterances.
- Implemented weather synchronization and condition calculator using  Meteorological Agency API with MongoDB and Java Spring Boot.
- Research vector similarity framesworks and programmed a script for text embedding training and indexing with faiss.
- Converted pytorch based model into Tensorflow based model and Implemented serving API for Tensorflow Serving.
- Compressed Transformer based large NLP model with knowledge distillation method for reducing model inference time.
- Updated Person Name Recognition model based on ELECTRA and Implemented de-identification algorithm.
- Built Automated Pipeline to finetune pretrained LM model and evaluate metrics with kubeflow pipelines.
- Researched and compared serveral server frameworks for serving vector similarity framework.
- Researched and compared Pytorch based model serving methods like TorchServe, ONNX.
- Developed kubeflow pipelines to build parts of conversational agent like retriever, ranker, candidate utterances.
- Developed test infra to evaluate each part of agent with kubernetes and helm enabling easy provision and termination of multiple conversational agents.
- Applied authorization system for our internal kubernetes cluster using istio authorization policy.
- Implemented tensorflow savedmodel converting scripts to serve our models on AWS Inferentia machine with neuron package.

__SW Maestro__ &emsp; Seoul, Korea  
*Team Leader, Backend Developer, NLP Developer* &emsp; [05. 2019] - [11. 2019]

- Developed counseling chatbot and released to Playstore with teammates.
- Application was downloaded 1000+. [StoryForest Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=tk.swmlegato.storyforest)
- Led our team as a team leader and managed project.
- Developed chatbot scenario build framework with Python flask.
- Researched and developed Natural Language Processing (NLP) modules such as sentence similarity or response generation, etc.

__Altibase__ &emsp; Suwon, South Korea  
*Industry-University cooperation* &emsp; [04. 2018] – [12. 2018]

- Developed performance monitoring tool for Altibase (DBMS).
- Built the environment to save and visualize the performance data using ELK stack.

__University of California, Irvine__ &emsp; Irvine, California, USA  
*Undergraduate research project participant* &emsp; [07. 2018] – [08. 2018]

- Participated non-GPS robot localization project in UC Irvine Center for Embedded Computer Systems (CECS) with Elaheh Bozorgzadeh.
- Simulated single robot localization with dead-reckoning method in V-rep simulator and python.
- Simulated multi robot localization with UKF filter MATLAB code.

__Stellarium Astronomy Software__ &emsp; Suwon, Korea  
*Open source project contributor* &emsp; [03. 2018] – [06. 2018]

- Updated the contents on Github Wiki page for how to build application using Visual Studio.
- Added an option to install Stellarium application in Korean language.
- Translate some words to Korean about the name of astronomical bodies.

__Microsoft__ &emsp; Suwon, South Korea  
*Industry-University cooperation* &emsp; [04. 2017] – [12. 2017]

- Studied Cloud Platform Service such as Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Service, Google Cloud Platform.
- Developed and operated messenger conversation analyzing web app tool with Python Flask.
- Researched usage of blockchain using Microsoft Azure.

## Activity

---

__Arduino Mentoring__ &emsp; Suwon, Korea  
*Arduino Instructor* &emsp; [12. 2019]

- Taught Arduino to high school students.
- Taught how to make RC car with Bluetooth, Ultra sonic modules, etc.

__SAP Design Thinking Education__ &emsp; Pangyo, Korea  
*Student* &emsp; [12. 2019]

- Learned customer-oriented problem solving.

__FastCampus Natural Language Generation Education__ &emsp; Seoul, Korea  
*Student* &emsp; [07. 2019] - [09. 2019]

- Learned from NLP basics to deep knowledges.
- Learned Neural machine translation (NMT) with seq2seq and attention, RL, etc.

__Freshman Python Education TA__ &emsp; Suwon, Korea  
*Teaching Assistant* &emsp; [02. 2019]

- Taught Python basic to freshmen.

__Campus Information Security Club__ &emsp; Suwon, Korea  
*Club President* &emsp; [12. 2017] - [01. 2019]

- Led Information Security Club (Hacker's In inTrusion).
- Planned, construct and taught security study like System, Web Hacking, Forensic, etc.

__2018 SKKU BugBounty__ &emsp; Suwon, South Korea  
*Incentive Award* &emsp; [10. 2018]

- Find vulnerability with finding web vulnerabilities such as Cookie reuse, SQL Injection, E-mail forward, Changing Password.
- Studied various way of Web hacking.

__CODEGATE 2018 Blind Coding__ &emsp; Seoul, Korea  
*Event booth 5th prize* &emsp; [04. 2018]

- Wrote simple codes with being blindfolded.

__Freshman Python Education TA__ &emsp; Suwon, Korea  
*Teaching Assistant* &emsp; [02. 2018]

- Taught Python basic to freshmen.

__Hancom MDS TensorFlow Deep Learning Education__ &emsp; Pangyo, Korea  
*Received education* &emsp; [02. 2018]

- Learned deep learning and Tensorflow basics.

__2017 SKKU BugBounty__ &emsp; Suwon, South Korea  
*Special Award (3rd Prize)* &emsp; [05. 2017]

- Developed ability to find, attack, prevent real secure vulnerability with finding web vulnerabilities such as
Cross Site Scripting or Web shell uploading.
- Studied various way of Web hacking.

## Skills & Interests

---

__Programming:__ Python, Go, Java, C, Arduino  
__Technologies/Environments:__ Visual Studio Code, Tensorflow, Pytorch, Docker, Flask, Kubernetes, Kubeflow, Faiss, AWS, GCP  
__Language skill:__ Korean(native), English(Intermediate, Opic IM2)  
__Interests:__ Writing, Calligraphy, Playing piano, Board Game, Reading books, Astronomical observation, Magic

Commit message:

feat: Add AI competition activity

about/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
tags: [about, Jekyll, theme, moon]
date: 2019-12-6
comments: false
---

<center>Last Updated at 21.11.12.</center>

## Education

---

Sungkyunkwan University Suwon, South Korea

- __Grade__: *Junior Year of College of Software, Bachelor of Software* &emsp; [03. 2017] ~
- __Credit__: 102 Credit completed
- __GPA__: 4.29 / 4.5
- __Honors__: TOPCIT Army Chief staff Award, Student's Success Scholarship, Scholarship for Academic Excellence, SKKU BugBounty 2018 Incentive Award, SKKU BugBounty 2017 Special Award, Deans’s Award
- __Coursework__: Data Structure, Algorithm, Problem Solving, Digital Logic Circuits, Discrete Mathematics, Linear Algebra, Cryptology, System Program, Introduction to Computer Architectures, Computer Networks, Open Source Software Practice, Database, Introduction to Machine Learning

## Experience

---

__Scatterlab__ &emsp; Seoul, Korea  
*Machine Learning Engineer* &emsp; [02. 2020] - [Present]

- Participanted developing open domain conversational chatbot agent [Luda-Lee](https://luda.ai/).
- Developed dataset management and automated model evaluate platform backend with Python and AWS Dynamo DB.  
- Research and Develop Person Name Recognition model and filter curse, sexual or containing person name utterances.
- Implemented weather synchronization and condition calculator using  Meteorological Agency API with MongoDB and Java Spring Boot.
- Research vector similarity framesworks and programmed a script for text embedding training and indexing with faiss.
- Converted pytorch based model into Tensorflow based model and Implemented serving API for Tensorflow Serving.
- Compressed Transformer based large NLP model with knowledge distillation method for reducing model inference time.
- Updated Person Name Recognition model based on ELECTRA and Implemented de-identification algorithm.
- Built Automated Pipeline to finetune pretrained LM model and evaluate metrics with kubeflow pipelines.
- Researched and compared serveral server frameworks for serving vector similarity framework.
- Researched and compared Pytorch based model serving methods like TorchServe, ONNX.
- Developed kubeflow pipelines to build parts of conversational agent like retriever, ranker, candidate utterances.
- Developed test infra to evaluate each part of agent with kubernetes and helm enabling easy provision and termination of multiple conversational agents.
- Applied authorization system for our internal kubernetes cluster using istio authorization policy.
- Implemented tensorflow savedmodel converting scripts to serve our models on AWS Inferentia machine with neuron package.

__SW Maestro__ &emsp; Seoul, Korea  
*Team Leader, Backend Developer, NLP Developer* &emsp; [05. 2019] - [11. 2019]

- Developed counseling chatbot and released to Playstore with teammates.
- Application was downloaded 1000+. [StoryForest Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=tk.swmlegato.storyforest)
- Led our team as a team leader and managed project.
- Developed chatbot scenario build framework with Python flask.
- Researched and developed Natural Language Processing (NLP) modules such as sentence similarity or response generation, etc.

__Altibase__ &emsp; Suwon, South Korea  
*Industry-University cooperation* &emsp; [04. 2018] – [12. 2018]

- Developed performance monitoring tool for Altibase (DBMS).
- Built the environment to save and visualize the performance data using ELK stack.

__University of California, Irvine__ &emsp; Irvine, California, USA  
*Undergraduate research project participant* &emsp; [07. 2018] – [08. 2018]

- Participated non-GPS robot localization project in UC Irvine Center for Embedded Computer Systems (CECS) with Elaheh Bozorgzadeh.
- Simulated single robot localization with dead-reckoning method in V-rep simulator and python.
- Simulated multi robot localization with UKF filter MATLAB code.

__Stellarium Astronomy Software__ &emsp; Suwon, Korea  
*Open source project contributor* &emsp; [03. 2018] – [06. 2018]

- Updated the contents on Github Wiki page for how to build application using Visual Studio.
- Added an option to install Stellarium application in Korean language.
- Translate some words to Korean about the name of astronomical bodies.

__Microsoft__ &emsp; Suwon, South Korea  
*Industry-University cooperation* &emsp; [04. 2017] – [12. 2017]

- Studied Cloud Platform Service such as Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Service, Google Cloud Platform.
- Developed and operated messenger conversation analyzing web app tool with Python Flask.
- Researched usage of blockchain using Microsoft Azure.

## Activity

---

__2021 Korean Voice and Natural Language AI competition__ &emsp; Seoul, Korea  
*1st Prize* &emsp; [09. 2021] - [11. 2021]

- Participated dialogue summarization competition with a total prize of $27K.
- Researched and developed dialogue summarization model as team leader.

__Arduino Mentoring__ &emsp; Suwon, Korea  
*Arduino Instructor* &emsp; [12. 2019]

- Taught Arduino to high school students.
- Taught how to make RC car with Bluetooth, Ultra sonic modules, etc.

__SAP Design Thinking Education__ &emsp; Pangyo, Korea  
*Student* &emsp; [12. 2019]

- Learned customer-oriented problem solving.

__FastCampus Natural Language Generation Education__ &emsp; Seoul, Korea  
*Student* &emsp; [07. 2019] - [09. 2019]

- Learned from NLP basics to deep knowledges.
- Learned Neural machine translation (NMT) with seq2seq and attention, RL, etc.

__Freshman Python Education TA__ &emsp; Suwon, Korea  
*Teaching Assistant* &emsp; [02. 2019]

- Taught Python basic to freshmen.

__Campus Information Security Club__ &emsp; Suwon, Korea  
*Club President* &emsp; [12. 2017] - [01. 2019]

- Led Information Security Club (Hacker's In inTrusion).
- Planned, construct and taught security study like System, Web Hacking, Forensic, etc.

__2018 SKKU BugBounty__ &emsp; Suwon, South Korea  
*Incentive Award* &emsp; [10. 2018]

- Find vulnerability with finding web vulnerabilities such as Cookie reuse, SQL Injection, E-mail forward, Changing Password.
- Studied various way of Web hacking.

__CODEGATE 2018 Blind Coding__ &emsp; Seoul, Korea  
*Event booth 5th prize* &emsp; [04. 2018]

- Wrote simple codes with being blindfolded.

__Freshman Python Education TA__ &emsp; Suwon, Korea  
*Teaching Assistant* &emsp; [02. 2018]

- Taught Python basic to freshmen.

__Hancom MDS TensorFlow Deep Learning Education__ &emsp; Pangyo, Korea  
*Received education* &emsp; [02. 2018]

- Learned deep learning and Tensorflow basics.

__2017 SKKU BugBounty__ &emsp; Suwon, South Korea  
*Special Award (3rd Prize)* &emsp; [05. 2017]

- Developed ability to find, attack, prevent real secure vulnerability with finding web vulnerabilities such as
Cross Site Scripting or Web shell uploading.
- Studied various way of Web hacking.

## Skills & Interests

---

__Programming:__ Python, Go, Java, C, Arduino  
__Technologies/Environments:__ Visual Studio Code, Tensorflow, Pytorch, Docker, Flask, Kubernetes, Kubeflow, Faiss, AWS, GCP  
__Language skill:__ Korean(native), English(Intermediate, Opic IM2)  
__Interests:__ Writing, Calligraphy, Playing piano, Board Game, Reading books, Astronomical observation, Magic
